---
layout: flat
title: Computer Bio
---
h1. About Ryan

This part of the site gets particularly wordy, so it's divided into a few pages.

* "Music":/about/bio/music.html
** "The Beginning":/about/bio/music.html#beg
** "Metal":/about/bio/music.html#metal
** "Jazz and Formal Training":/about/bio/music.html#jazz
** "Electronic":/about/bio/music.html#elec
* "Computers":/about/bio/comp.html
** "The Beginning":#beg
** "Software Engineering":#se
** "Research Interests":#res
* "Dance":/about/bio/dance.html
** "Popping":/about/bio/dance.html#pop
** "Swing Dance":/about/bio/dance.html#swing
** "Other Styles":/about/bio/dance.html#other
* "Education":/about/bio/education.html
** "High School":/about/bio/education.html#high
** "University":/about/bio/education.html#uni

h1. Computers

It's a scary thought, but it's hard for me to recall much of what I did before I had a computer.

So much of my life has revolved around using the computer, whether it be learning, having fun, or meeting people.

Nowadays, I use my computer mostly for programming. I actually try to minimize my computer usage outside of schoolwork/programming.

h3(#beg). The Beginning

I got my first computer for Christmas when I was a kid. It was a Compaq Presario with Windows 95. I thought it was super interesting, I'd go on it just to write stuff and draw things in paint. I'd browse the system folders and try and figure out what things did.

One day, I dicovered the internet. Honestly, my discovery of the internet was explosive and borderline addicting. I can't remember when I first found it, but I remmeber that if there was ever internet access near me, I felt I *(med)had* to use it.

I spent one of my friends birthday parties on his computer on the internet. When I went to my fathers business, I went to the internet. Hamster dance, pokemon fan pages, making my own website, I'm not sure what I liked so much about it, but I was addicted.

Eventually my mom got dial up, and my addiction somewhat normalized. I spent a lot of time playing online games like pogo's checkers, and talking to people while I played. Something about meeting all these people online seemed so awesome. To this day, I still know how to contact like 2 peopel from my AOL days, but I haven't talked to them in years.

Soon we moved past dial up, upgraded a few computers/Operating Systems. I hopped from online community to online community, I could never stay on one for too long.

My first interest in programming came in when I made an RPG with RPG Toolkit for my school's science fair, though my interest quickly died out until the end of high school.

h3(#se). Software Engineering

My first interests in programming stemmed from an RPG I made when I was a younger, but my interests never really developed until high school where I'd take each homework and write a program on my ti-83 to solve my homework for me. Of course, I had to know how to *(med)do* the homework first, but this was mostly a rebellion against the ridiculous number of repetitive problems we had to do.

I applied to RIT for Software Engineering. Why software engineering, and not CS? Because I enjoy working in teams, I don't want to be doing academic research my whole life, and I'm interested in good software design. What it comes down to, I think, is that I'm more about doing something useful, rather than doing something useless.

I have experience writing in Java, C++, C, Ruby, Python, PHP, Go, and SQL (Postgres and Oracle). I also have experience with markup languages like XHTML, XML, CSS, and Javascript.

h3(#res). Research Interests

Despite being a Software Engineer by major, what interests me are really "intellectually fun" problems. Currently my biggest interests lie in Artificial Intelligence. Particularly, I'm interested in (meta)heuristic algorithms, like genetic algorithms. In the past I've been intrigued by quantum encryption/Shor's algorithm, but getting deep into that goes beyond my field of expertise. Basically I like putting crazy theoretical stuff to new uses.
