---
layout: flat
title: Dance Bio
section: "about"
---
h1. About Ryan

This part of the site gets particularly wordy, so it's divided into a few pages.

* "Music":/about/bio/music.html
** "The Beginning":/about/bio/music.html#beg
** "Metal":/about/bio/music.html#metal
** "Jazz and Formal Training":/about/bio/music.html#jazz
** "Electronic":/about/bio/music.html#elec
* "Computers":/about/bio/comp.html
** "The Beginning":/about/bio/comp.html#beg
** "Software Engineering":/about/bio/comp.html#se
** "Research Interests":/about/bio/comp.html#res
* "Dance":/about/bio/dance.html
** "Popping":#pop
** "Swing Dance":#swing
** "Other Styles":#other
* "Education":/about/bio/education.html
** "High School":/about/bio/education.html#high
** "University":/about/bio/education.html#uni

h1. Dance

Dancing is my most recent major endeavor. Dancing piqued my interest some time around 2007, where I saw some break dancers at Anime Boston, and they inspired me to be able to do *(med)something* worth watching at dance events (this is when my interest in electronic music was just beginning.

h3(#pop). Popping

After deciding I wanted to learn some for of dance I could do at dances/raves/parties/clubs, I decided on learning how to liquid, which my friend "CJ":http://imreallyawesome.com mentioned he knew how to do. I taught myself from videos on youtube, and practiced in my spare time.

Eventually my liquid became decent, and I began to incorperate arm waves, then body waves. And thus I became a waver.

In the summer of 2009, I decided that I was practically a popper anyways, so I should begin practicing some more traditional popping moves. I spent a lot of time in clubs in NYC testing out new moves, performing in dance circles and such, really raiding my popping skill.

The biggest influence on my style thus far has been The Ringmasters, who, unknown to me at the time, I met at Club Exit in Brooklyn. They had some of the craziest moves I had ever seen. From watching them, I learned something important: take your time. Their moves were slow, calculated, and dramatically accentuated by the beats. Before them, I was a "hit every beat" kind of guy. After, My popping became much more controlled, cleaner, and in my opinion better.

Back at RIT, I practice popping at RIT's Breakdance Club, and informally teach it to others who want to learn. I'm hoping to come up with a routine and maybe record a video. Alternatively, I'm trying to get good enough so I can perform in various places, or even just get comped for events.

h3(#swing). Swing

Though I don't tend to dress the part, I am a Lindy Hopper.

I decided I wanted to learn to swing when I saw "this":http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LAAAV7BB1HU video, and thought it would be amazing to be able to dance like that.

While I'm not doing aerials (yet >:D) I've certainly progressed pretty far, and I've even met someone from that video!.

I'm now the Events Coordinator for the RIT Swing Dance club, and helped throw RIT's first live band swing dance in 7 years.

h3(#other). Other Styles

I'm keeping my mind open to all sorts of style of dance.

I'm currently learning to breakdance. When I feel like having fun, I do some Tecktonik (TCK) dancing. Sometimes after swing dancing, I dabble in blues dancing, which I enjoy, but I am certainly sub-par at. Apart from that, I've dipped my feet into Salsa, but haven't found the time to build an interest in it.
