---
layout: flat
title: About Me -Education
---
h1. About Ryan

This part of the site gets particularly wordy, so it's divided into a few pages.

* "Music":/about/bio/music.html
** "The Beginning":/about/bio/music.html#beg
** "Metal":/about/bio/music.html#metal
** "Jazz and Formal Training":/about/bio/music.html#jazz
** "Electronic":/about/bio/music.html#elec
* "Computers":/about/bio/comp.html
** "The Beginning":/about/bio/comp.html#beg
** "Software Engineering":/about/bio/comp.html#se
** "Research Interests":/about/bio/comp.html#res
* "Dance":/about/bio/dance.html
** "Popping":/about/bio/dance.html#pop
** "Swing Dance":/about/bio/dance.html#swing
** "Other Styles":/about/bio/dance.html#othear
* "Education":/about/bio/education.html
** "High School":#high
** "University":#uni

h1. Education

p.   

h3(#high). High School

I went to High School at Mystic Valley Regional -Prison Camp- Charter School. My graduating class had 33 students. We all knew eachother fairly well, and for the most part, we all got along well together.

My experience there was mixed. I definitely believe their administration has a few too many heads up their asses, but I got a prime education that I wouldn't have at Malden High or any of the other local public schools. Looking back though, MVRCS really had much for me. No music program. No computer program. I guess in some respects, the value I got out of MVRCS was self made.

h3(#uni). University

I am now currently attending Rochester Institute of Technology. I'm studying Software Engineering, and I'm really enjoying my education, for the most part.

While the city here utterly bores me, there's thankfully enough to do on campus to keep me occupied. I'm an alumni of Computer Science House, a member of the Society of Software Engineers, the Events Coordinator in the RIT Swing Dance Club, as well as a member of the Breakdance Club.
