---
layout: flat
title: Music Bio
section: "about"
---
h1. About Ryan

This part of the site gets particularly wordy, so it's divided into a few pages.

* "Music":/about/bio/music.html
** "The Beginning":#beg
** "Metal":#metal
** "Jazz and Formal Training":#jazz
** "Electronic":#elec
* "Computers":/about/bio/comp.html
** "The Beginning":/about/bio/comp.html#beg
** "Software Engineering":/about/bio/comp.html#se
** "Research Interests":/about/bio/comp.html#res
* "Dance":/about/bio/dance.html
** "Popping":/about/bio/dance.html#pop
** "Swing Dance":/about/bio/dance.html#swing
** "Other Styles":/about/bio/dance.html#other
* "Education":/about/bio/education.html
** "High School":/about/bio/education.html#high
** "University":/about/bio/education.html#uni

h1. Music

Music has been part of my life for a long time, but like all of my hobbies, it wasn't always that way. I owe a lot of things I have today to music; most importantly, my social skills. Prior to taking up music as a major hobby, I was very shy, and spent my time on the internet, browsing, playing games, MMORPGs and such. 

Music got me to join a band, and perform in front of others. Performing taught me how to get used to praise and criticism, and get used to meeting scores of new people interested in discussing all sorts of things. It wasn't a quick process, but music transformed me from an introvert to an extrovert.

h3(#beg). The beginning

My first step towards music probably happened when I got a large Casio keyboard for Christmas around age 8. I didn't really take to it, but I played with the beats and sounds when I got bored. The important thing was that it was always around the house.

A little later on, my older brother joined (or started?) a piano moving business, and got us a piano to keep around the house. My father would sit down and play the standard 50's I-iv-whatever and sing all sorts of old Doo-Wop songs that all seem to fit over it.

I watched him a couple times, and figured it out for myself when I got bored one day. It wasn't that hard, but my father was impressed. In his excitement, he taught us a Doo Wop song that we sung at our church's talent show; complete with slick hair, drawn on sideburns, and leather jackets! Somewhere, my parents have a video that (hopefully) shall never reach the eyes of the public :).

My brother had a tiny kids guitar he got for christmas and neglected. One day around age 14, I picked it up and taught myself "7 Nation Army" by The White Stripes. Seeing my interest, my dad tuned up an old acoustic he had packed away and taught me how to play... Cmaj, Amin, and Dmaj (how fitting ;P).

The rest is kind of history. I taught myself how to read tabs, learned some classic rock stuff, stairway to heaven, etc. My parents got me a Yamaha electric guitar starter kit for christmas. That same chistmas, I also got Steve Vai's anthology.

My time was now spent at the computer, as it was before, but now simultaneously playing guitar. I'd play for hours a day. I picked it up quickly.

Eventually I decided if I wanted to be as good as Steve Vai, I'd have to learn to solo, and there's no way to get where I wanted with out just *(med)doing* it. I set out a plan to learn the solo to AC/DC's "Shook me all night long" - one bar a day. Eventually, I succeded. It didn't sound too awesome at first, but it became my staple I guess.

Time passed, I practiced more and more, taught myself some theory. My friend at the time, Gina, said she knew some people who were looking for a guitarist for a thrash metal band. The kids were friends-of-friends I had seen hang out after school before. With some convincing, my parents let me go over for our first practice.

That band became OHD, or "Obsolete Human Disorder." After the summer passed, we renamed outselves to "Distopia."

h3(#metal). Metal

I began litening to metal a bit before I picked up a guitar. I listened mostly to Metallica, Megadeth. Over one summer (probably 2004), I was at a summer camp and my mom sent me up a sampler CD. This CD changed my look on guitar in a big way- it had a track on it by Marty Friedman- "Cheer Girl Rampage." This was my first exposure to virtuoso music and real shred.

When I got home, I looked for more of the music. I ran into Cacophony, Steve Vai, Yngwie Malmsteen, Jason Becker, and Joe Satriani. I told myself that if I got a guitar, I'd have to be able to play as good as them.

The last section explains a bit more, but here we'll fast forward to me joining a band.  We wrote a few Thrash metal songs, and released a basement recorded demo. Mike Nevin (drummer) and James Arsenault (bassist) were beginning to get into progressive and power metal. The progressive metal bug bit me hard since it seemed so influenced by virtuoso guitarists, but powermetal didn't impress me.

Being in the band pushed my limits, each song getting more challenging than the last. Eventually I one day as a joke I just fudged a solo by tremolo picking while moving my fingers around within some random scale. At this point something snapped, and I broke the "shredding barrier." It would still be a long time before I had good control, but all of a sudden, the path to shedding became clear.

That summer, I went up to P.E.I., Canada, and spend 2 weeks in a cabin/at a beach with pretty much nothing to do. I spent my time practicing some crazy tap licks, and transcribed some of Marty Friedmans songs into powertab (which, to this day, can be found all around the internet!). I also got bored and found out I like power metal (hahaha).

I came back, and the band to a sharp turn in the Prog/power direction. We began playing a bunch of shows. I picked up a 7 string guitar, and we spent a lot of time practicing and working on a concept album involving the myths surrounding 2012 (Looonng before it was cool to talk about 2012).

Andrew Faller (keyboardist) and I both joined the IB programme at our school, and, due to an overwhelming workload, started missing practices until the band just faded out of existance.

h3(#jazz). Jazz and Formal Training

After about 2 years of playing guitar, I decided I wanted to go to Berklee College of Music for Guitar Performance. It seemed like a logical choice.

I enlisted the help of Don Shulze (Donhead) at BMR music in Malden.

I went in for my first lesson, and played "Die to Live" by Steve for him when he asked if I could demonstrate what I know.

When I finished, he just kinda sat there like O_O. And then he asked, "So, do you know like...what's actually going on there?" The answer was no. I knew the chords, I knew it was in 7/4, but that is what I needed- formal training in theory.

Our lessons covered things like improvisation, soloing, making interesting progressions, soloing over key changes, modal reharmonization. It was fun times. Basically I was preparing myself for Berklee.

When I was waiting for Don before my lesson, the guy running the place, Brian, would give me a cool shredding lick to chew on. Brian was a crazy shredder.

While taking lessons, I began listening to a lot of different styles of music. A lot of jazz, a lof of avant-garde, a lot of fusion. I started listening to jazz cause I knew I'd need to if I wanted to succede in Berklee, but it really grew on me, and I still listen to it for it's depth and soul.

Eventually, I stopped taking lessons. Part due to some serious financial issues my family was having, and part due to the IB taking so much of my -life- time, my practice had slowed greatly, and my concentration on math and computers took charge.

While I was waiting for a ride home, I told Brian I was going to go to Berklee. He said don't do it. He told me, and I still beleive it, that you can learn anything Berklee can teach you without going there, and even for free.

He told me of a friend who was *(med)better* than him at guitar, but went to school for business instead. He's now retired in his late 30s, and owns a bunch of apartment complexes which he pays someone else to run. He has all the time in the world to practice and teach himself whatever he wants. Meanwhile, Brian was unlucky (cause really, the music business is very much just networking and luck) and spends his days teaching guitar all day in a band that's getting nowhere.

*(med)I didn't do it. I didn't go to Berklee.*

And thus far, I don't regret it one bit.

h3(#elec). Electronic

This is the newest chapter of my musical career. While it certainly hasn't taken over completely, it definitely has it's place. I enjoy most genres, namely electro, dubstep, psytrance, psybient, glitch, and ambient.

I've experimented with producing electronic music, and after I write this, you'll probably begin to see some tracks released.
