---
title: Jello Mix
subtitle: "Dance Dance Dance"
layout: post
category: music
section: "hobbies"
---

I made this mix to give an idea of what kind of tracks I was going to play at a particular party I was DJing for.

It's certainly not perfect, but it's only for fun.

Note that this is *not* real DJing, I'm using traktor which beatmatches for me (usually).

*(med)At the moment, the mix is unavailable due to my previous computer exploding.*

<notextile>
<p id="audioplayer_1">Jello Mix</p>  
<script type="text/javascript">  
AudioPlayer.embed("audioplayer_1", {soundFile: "/media/music/Ryan Clough Sample DJ.mp3"});  
</script> 
</notextile>
"Download MP3 Here":/media/music/Ryan%20Clough%20Sample%20DJ.mp3 

Track List:
# 1. Into The Clouds (Mille Remix) - The Sound Of Arrows
# 2. Night By Night (Midnight Conspiracy Remix) - Chromeo
# 3. Hit My Ride (B. Rich Remix) - Ladybox
# 4. Sexy Ole (Disco Fanatics Bootleg) - John Revox vs EasyTech
# 5. 3 (Wolfgang Gartner Extended Mix) - Britney Spears
# 6. The Final Countdown (DJ Zam Remix) - Europe
# 7. Bounce (The Bloody Beetroots Remix) - MSTRKRFT
# 8. Anthonio (Designer Drugs Remix) - Annie
# 9. A Cause Des Garcons (Tepr Remix) - Yelle
# 11. Bad Romance (Larry Tee & Per QX Super Disco Party Machine Extended Mix) - Lady GaGa
# 12. Stupid Bitches (DatA Remix) - DSL
# 13. Might Like You Better (Vindata Remix) - Amanda Blank
# 14. Save the Flavor (Pance Party Remix) - BlacKMahal
# 15. Amsterdam (AC Slater Remix) - Mightyfools
# 16. Tik Tok (BarakVanunu Electro Mix) - Keesha
# 17. Thunderstruck (Crookers Remix) - ACDC
# 18. Crysteena (Fear of Tigers Remix) - Mille
# 19. Blinded by the Light (DJ Donna Summer Boot) - Bruce Springsteen
